In this lecture,
we will review each of the steps in
the machine learning
process in greater detail.
After this video, you will be able
to explain the goals of each step in
the machine learning process, and list key
activities in each step in the process.
This is the machine learning process
that we saw in the last lecture.
In this lecture,
we will cover each step in more detail.
We will describe the goals
of each step and
the key activities performed in each step.
The first step in the data science
process is to acquire the data.
The goal of the step is to identify and
obtain all data related
to the problem at hand.
First, we need to identify all
related data and the sources.
Keep in mind, that data can come from
different sources such as files,
databases, the internet, mobile devices.
So remember to include all data related
to the problem you're addressing.
After you've identified your data and
data sources,
the next step is to collect the data and
integrate data from the different sources.
This may require conversion,
as data can come in different formats.
And it may also require aligning the data,
as data from different sources may have
different time or spacial resolutions.
Once you’ve collected and integrated your
data, you now have a coherent data set for
your analysis.
The next step after acquiring data is
to prepare it to make it suitable for
analysis.
There are two parts to this step,
explore data and preprocess data.
We will discuss data exploration first.
In data exploration, you want to
do some preliminary investigation
in order to gain a better understanding of
the specific characteristics of your data.
This in turn will guide
the rest of the process.
With data exploration,
you'll want to look for
things like correlations,
general trends, outliers, etc.
Correlations provide information
about the relationship
between variables in your data.
Trends in your data will reveal if the
variable is moving in a certain direction,
such as transaction volume
increasing throughout the year.
Outliers indicate potential
problems with the data, or
may indicate an interesting data
point that needs further examination.
Without this data exploration activity,
you will not be able to
use your data effectively.
One way to explore your data is
to calculate summary statistics
to numerically describe the data.
Summary statistics are quantities
that capture various characteristics
of a set of values with a single number,
or a small set of numbers.
Some basic summary statistics that you
should compute for your data set are mean,
median, mode, range and
standard deviation.
Mean and median are measures of
the location of a set of values.
Mode is the value that occurs most
frequently in your data set, and
range and standard deviation
are measures of spread in your data.
Looking at these measures will give you
an idea of the nature of your data.
They can tell you if there's
something wrong with your data.
For example, if the range of
the values for age in your data
includes negative numbers, or
a number much greater than a hundred,
there's something suspicious in
the data that needs to be examined.
Visualization techniques
also provide quick and
effective ways to explore your data.
Some examples are, a histogram,
such as the plot shown here,
shows the distribution of the data and
can show skewness or
unusual dispersion in outliers.
A line plot, like the one in the lower
left, can be used to look at trends in
the data, such as,
the change in the price of a stock.
A heat map can give you an idea
of where the hot spots are.
A scatter plot effectively shows
correlation between two variables.
Overall, there are many types
of plots to visualize data.
They are very useful in helping
you understand the data you have.
The second part of the prepare
step is preprocess.
So, after we've explored the data, we need
to preprocess the data to prepare it for
analysis.
The goal here is to create the data
that will be used for analysis.
The main activities on this
part are to clean the data,
select the appropriate variables to
use and transform the data as needed.
A very important part of
data preparation is to
clean the data to address quality issues.
Real world data is nothing.
There are many examples of quality issues
with data from real applications including
missing values, such as income
in a survey, duplicate data,
such as two different records for the same
customer with different addresses.
Inconsistent or invalid data,
such as a six digit zip code.
Noise in the collection of data
that distorts the true values.
Outliers, such as a number much
larger than 100 for someone's age.
It is essential to detect and
address these issues that can negatively
affect the quality of the data.
Other activities in data preprocessing
can be broadly categorized as
feature selection and
feature transformation.
Feature selection refers to
choosing the set of features to
use that is appropriate for
the application.
Feature selection can
involve removing redundant or
irrelevant features, combining features,
or creating new features.
During the exploring data step,
you may have discovered that two
features are very correlated.
In that case,
one of these features can be removed
without negatively effecting
the analysis results.
For example,
the purchase price of a product and
the amount of sales tax pain
are very likely to be correlated.
Eliminating the sales tax
amount then will be beneficial.
Removing redundant or irrelevant features
will make the subsequent analysis simpler.
You may also want to combine features or
create new ones.
For example,
adding the applicants education level
as a feature to a loan approval
application would make sense.
There are also algorithms to
automatically determine the most relevant
features based on various
mathematical properties.
Feature transformation maps the data
from one format to another.
Various transformation operations exist.
For example, scaling maps
the data values to a specified
range to prevent any one feature from
dominating the analysis results.
Filtering or aggregation can be used to
reduce noise and variability in the data.
Dimensionality reduction maps the data
to a smaller subset of dimensions
to simplify the subsequent analysis.
We will discuss techniques to prepare
data in more detail later in this course.
After preparing the data to
address data quality issues and
preprocess it to get it in
the appropriate format,
the next step in the machine learning
process is to analyze the data.
The goals of the staff are to
build a machine learning model,
to analyze the data and to evaluate
the results that you get from the model.
The analyze steps starts with this
determining the type of problem you have.
You begin by selecting appropriate machine
learning techniques to analyze the data.
Then you construct the model using
the data that you've prepared.
Once the model is built, you will
want to apply it to new data samples
to evaluate how well the model performs.
Thus data analysis involves selecting
the appropriate technique for
your problem, building the model,
then evaluating the results.
As there are a different
types of problems,
there are also different
types of analysis techniques.
We will cover algorithms for
building machine learning models in a much
more detail in week three of this course.
The next step in the machine learning
process is reporting results from your
analysis.
In reporting your results, it is important
to communicate your insights and
make a case for
what actions should follow.
In reporting your results,
you will want to think about what to
present, as well as how to present.
In deciding what to present, you should
consider what the main results are,
what insights were gained
from your analysis, and
what added value do these insights
bring to the application.
Keep in mind that even negative results
are valuable lessons learned, and
suggest further avenues for
additional analysis.
Remember that all findings
must be presented so
that informs decisions can be made for
next steps.
In deciding how to present,
remember that visualization is an
important tool in presenting your results.
Plots and summary statistics
discussing the explore step
can be used effectively here as well.
You should also have tables with
details from your analysis as backup,
if someone wants to take
a deeper dive into the results.
In summary, you want to report your
findings by presenting your results and
the value added with graphs
using visualization tools.
The final step in
the machine loading process
is to determine what action should be
taken based on the insights gained.
What action should be taken based
on the results of your analysis?
Should you market certain products
to a specific customer segment to
increase sales?
What inefficiency is can be
removed from your process?
What incentives would be effective
in attracting new customers?
Once a specific action
has been determined,
the next step is to implement the action.
Things to consider here include, how can
the action be added to your application?
How will end users be affected?
Assessing the impact of the implemented
action is then necessary to evaluate
the benefits gained.
The results of this assessment
determine next steps,
which could suggest additional analysis or
further opportunities,
which would begin another cycle
of the machine learning process.
In summary, we've looked at the steps in
the machine learning process in detail.
The goals or main activities of each
step were discussed in this lecture.
Remember that this is
an iterative process,
in which each step can be repeated
more than once, and findings from
each step may require a previous step
to be repeated with new information